In this video, we'll take a look at how you can create an RDD.
SparkContext and SparkSession are both entry points of our spark application,
SparkContext specifically for RDD,
but SparkContext has been deprecated since version 2.0,
and we'll use sparkcontext for this RDD example,
and then use sparksession for the next example.
So we're going to import sparkcontext and sparkcom
from pyspark because we're using Python,
we'll be specifically importing pyspark library not SparkLibrary.
Now, we're going to use some configuration values to the spark conf,
and we'll be using SparkConf to create a sparkcontext.
Now, we're going to create a sparkcontext using the configuration values.
There are few other ways of setting this.
For example you can do conf.setMaster instead of chaining like that some URL.
Then usually this will be your yarn or mesos master URL like 33,
like actual APIs, actual IPs, so on.
You can see a key value pairs like conf.set. Let's see.
Maybe if you want to set your executor memory separately,
then it would be spark.executor.memory,
let's say like two gigabytes.
You can also load your configuration from
an external file if you're configuration gets really long.
Now we'll be creating an RDD.
The way we're going to do this is because we're creating the first one.
We're not going to load it from a text file or external file,
but we're going to be just parallelizing it.
So lets do a parallelize.
I'm going to create a list of
tuples,and it's going to have a person's name and their age.
So this is a tuple and then we're going to do [inaudible] Alfred.
Let's do another Alfred, another person.
Then we're going to do our duty collect on this just to see what it looks like.
Cool. This actually shows what your RDD contains.
This was a way of creating an RDD.
Now, we're going to try to create an RDD using a transformation.
We're going to use the same parallelize method to create a new one.
Let's just copy some values here,
and then let's create another table.
What I'm planning to do is to join these two tables,
and we're going to make one of them have both contain the same value.
Cool. Now we have two tables that we can join on.
What I'm going to do is now to join these two RDD left join right,
and we're going to try and get with joint RDD is.
So this is just a Python RDD.
What we can do is we can collect these to show the values again. All right.
You can see how the key and the values are mapped together by the same keys.
So this was a quick way to show how to create an RDD by using that parallelize.
The first example just showed a simple way to generate RDD,
then collect the value.
The second example generated two new RDDs,
and then generated a third RDD by applying transformation
on top of another RDD which was by using a join operation.
Later, we'll take a look at how to create data frame using sparksession entry point.